Plot 1
Figure a shows the error in prediction of classes of observations in test set in half data implementing knn using k = 3(optimum) against the scaling value of the aspect ratio. It shows that the error is bounded between .07 to .08 in the range 600 to 1500 of the scaling factor. 

Fig b shows the error in prediction of classes of observations in test set in full data implementing knn using k = 3(optimum) against the scaling value of the aspect ratio. It shows that the error is bounded between .11 to .14 in the range 700 to 900 of the scaling factor. 

Plot 2
This plot shows the proportion of total variation within clusters against the number of clusters(k) for full data. It shows that the within cluster variation decreases to 30 % if we use 10 clusters in k means. Thus k = 10 is an optimum choice of number of clusters for our clustering algorithms.

Plot 3
This plot shows the proportion of total variation within clusters against the number of clusters(k) for half data. It shows that the within cluster variation decreases to 30 % if we use 10 clusters in k means. Thus k = 10 is an optimum choice of number of clusters for our clustering algorithms.

Plot 4
This is the tree diagramme showing the classification of the training data set for the full data. It shows that v32 which is the aspect ratio is the first criteria of split. Also CART does not use the higher order pc scores. 

Plot 5

This is a plot of the relative cross calidated error in prediction against the complexity parameter and the size of the tree for the full data. # need not include in slides

Plot 7

This is the tree diagramme showing the classification of the training data set for the half data. It shows that v22 which is the aspect ratio is the first criteria of split. Also CART does not use the higher order pc scores. 

Plot 6
This is a plot of the relative cross calidated error in prediction against the complexity parameter and the size of the tree for the half data. # need not include in slides

Plot 8

Fig a shows the cumulative percentage of variation explained by the eigen values in the half data. it shows that only 15 eigen values van explain more than 60 percent variation in the data.

Fig b shows the cumulative percentage of variation explained by the eigen values in the full data. it shows that only 25 eigen values van explain more than 70 percent variation in the data.
